---
title: "Code"
---

## {{ page.title }}

What intrigues about software development is the possibility to solve complex
problems and build large systems through abstraction. I find great enjoyment
in creating software for people to experience, while I get to work with logical
systems to understand the services I use myself on a daily basis.

Most of the major school projects I have been involved in, or created
myself, are available on [GitHub]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}).
Some examples include building a [MiniJava compiler]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/komp14-compiler)
to Jasmin assembly code, building a [voxel landscape renderer]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/dgi14-voxels)
using Perlin noise, developing [QWait](https://github.com/mvk13ogb/qwait), the next
generation lab queueing system for KTH CSC, and building a
[program]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/songmood) for
classifying song lyrics using sentiment analysis.

Additional project information is available on [LinkedIn]({{ site.data.links['Social']['LinkedIn'] }})
or my [KTH website]({{ site.data.links['Education']['KTH Homepage'] }}).

### Currently

My current code project is to write an [interpreter]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/bigot-interpreter)
in Haskell for my made-up non-functional programming language Bigot.

### Game Development

I work as a programmer at [Paradox Development Studio](https://www.paradoxplaza.com/),
where I also did my [Master thesis](http://kth.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2:947287).
For my thesis, I created a method for testing networked lockstep games for synchronisation
problems using Python and C++, and evaluated it on the game [Europa Universalis IV](http://www.europauniversalis4.com/).
I have created a couple of simplistic games like [Another Game]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/another-game)
on my spare time using Java and Slick2D.

My latest finished game is a variant of Snake written in Lua using the LÖVE library.
It's called Lua Love Snake, and you can check it out at its
[GitHub page]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/lua-love-snake).
I've also made a simple text-based [adventure game]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/text-adventure)
in C++ at KTH, and I've [dabbled]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/sfml-game)
with the SFML C++ game library.

### Web Development

I've been involved in a fair bit of web development, mostly at work, but also
in school. Personally I have [this website]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/hlilje.github.io)
to maintain, and I've also started a Go Google App Engine [application](https://app.{{ site.url_short }})
which I will probably scrap. Apart from helping to build [QWait](https://github.com/mvk13ogb/qwait)
with Java/Spring, and JavaScript/AngularJS, I updated and enhanced a website for product
substitution at Ericsson which was built using VB.NET and Microsoft SQL Server.

During one summer I worked as a web developer at 5 Monkeys, where I continued the
development of a website for a major chain of building suppliers. We exclusively used
open source technologies like Python, Django and PostgreSQL.

### Dotfiles

[Here!]({{ site.data.links['Software Development']['GitHub'] }}/dotfiles)
